AUTHORS.rst, before:

Main program
------------

Copyright(c) 2007-2013 Yuri D'Elia <wavexx@users.sf.net>
License: GNU GPL 2+ (see COPYING)

Bundled code
------------

* PHP-Gettext:

  Copyright(c) 2005 Steven Armstrong <sa at c-area dot ch>
  Copyright(c) 2003, 2009 Danilo Segan <danilo@kvota.net>
  Copyright(c) 2005 Nico Kaiser <nico@siriux.net>
  License: GNU GPL 2+ (see COPYING)

* iepngfix.htc:

  (c) 2004-2005 Angus Turnbull http://www.twinhelix.com
  This is licensed under the CC-GNU LGPL, version 2.1 or later.
  For details, see: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/LGPL/2.1/

* progress-polyfill:

  Copyright(c) 2013 Jonathan Stipe https://github.com/jonstipe/progress-polyfill
  Dual licensed under the MIT or GPL Version 2 licenses.
  http://jquery.org/license

* jQuery:

  Copyright 2011, John Resig
  Dual licensed under the MIT or GPL Version 2 licenses.
  http://jquery.org/license

Bundled media
-------------

* tick.png, edit.png, save.png, upload.png:

  Copyright(c) 2011 Yusuke Kamiyamane.
  Licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 license.
  http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/

* down.png:

  Copyright(c) FatCow Web Hosting.
  Licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 license.
  http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/

Commit message:

Switch password hash to PHPass "Portable Hash" (bcrypt).
- New column pass_ph in user/ticket/grant tables.
- Upgrade-on-login/usage for all three cases (after successful validation the
  cleartext is rehashed with the new hash).
- To keep complexity acceptable, passwords beyond 72 chars are no longer
  accepted even with the old hash.
- Fix username leak timing attacks along the way.

AUTHORS.rst, after:

Main program
------------

Copyright(c) 2007-2013 Yuri D'Elia <wavexx@users.sf.net>
License: GNU GPL 2+ (see COPYING)

Bundled code
------------

* PHP-Gettext:

  Copyright(c) 2005 Steven Armstrong <sa at c-area dot ch>
  Copyright(c) 2003, 2009 Danilo Segan <danilo@kvota.net>
  Copyright(c) 2005 Nico Kaiser <nico@siriux.net>
  License: GNU GPL 2+ (see COPYING)

* PHPass:

  Written by Solar Designer <solar at openwall.com> in 2004-2006 and placed in
  the public domain.  Revised in subsequent years, still public domain.
  http://www.openwall.com/phpass/

* iepngfix.htc:

  (c) 2004-2005 Angus Turnbull http://www.twinhelix.com
  This is licensed under the CC-GNU LGPL, version 2.1 or later.
  For details, see: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/LGPL/2.1/

* progress-polyfill:

  Copyright(c) 2013 Jonathan Stipe https://github.com/jonstipe/progress-polyfill
  Dual licensed under the MIT or GPL Version 2 licenses.
  http://jquery.org/license

* jQuery:

  Copyright 2011, John Resig
  Dual licensed under the MIT or GPL Version 2 licenses.
  http://jquery.org/license

Bundled media
-------------

* tick.png, edit.png, save.png, upload.png:

  Copyright(c) 2011 Yusuke Kamiyamane.
  Licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 license.
  http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/

* down.png:

  Copyright(c) FatCow Web Hosting.
  Licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 license.
  http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/
